
<p>
Original Posting Date: 2017-09-06
</p>

<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="bylaw_change_to_implement_patronage_dividends">Bylaw Change to Implement Patronage Dividends</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Next month, member-owners will  receive notice of a special meeting to implement something called “patronage dividends.” What are patronage dividends, and why is the Co-op Board recommending member-owners implement this change to the bylaws?
Before we get to that question, it’s important to note that patronage dividends do not replace your member discount. The current Board is committed to retaining the member discount. Patronage dividends will actually be an additional financial benefit to you as a member-owner, and to the Co-op.
So why is the Board recommending this change at this time? Quite simply, for the first time in years the Co-op has been profitable, and this creates tax liability problems for the Co-op. By implementing the patronage-dividend, it allows the Co-op to retain more money to improve the store while returning some money to the member-owners, without having to pay corporate income tax on it.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Bylaw Change to Implement Patronage Dividends" [36-1028] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="what_are_patronage_dividends">What are Patronage Dividends?</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
In for-profit corporations, dividends are paid proportional to the owner’s shares or other equity. Co-operative corporations (called “Type T” corporations) are set up for the “mutual benefit” of the member/owners. Instead of paying dividends based on the proportion of a member’s equity, these dividends are based on the amount of business the member/owner did with the Co-op. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "What are Patronage Dividends?" [1029-1462] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="how_are_patronage_dividends_determined">How are Patronage Dividends determined?</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
After the fiscal year has ended and all the accounting for the year is done, the profit or loss for the year is determined. The Finance Committee and the General Manager will have put together a budget for the year and will determine how much of the excess income needs to be retained for reserve funds (to cover expenses that occur periodically like new equipment, etc.). The remainder will then be declared as the pool for patronage dividends. The amount each member household will receive depends on how much that household has spent, its patronage, at the Co-op.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "How are Patronage Dividends determined?" [1463-2084] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="retained_dividends">Retained Dividends</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
One of the unusual aspects of patronage dividends is that they are seldom paid out in full. IRS regulations require that at least 20% of the dividend be paid to members, but up to 80% can be retained by the Co-op. This can be used to strengthen the Co-op’s cash position in general or for capital for future projects or expansion.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Retained Dividends" [2085-2450] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="how_are_dividends_distributed">How are Dividends Distributed?</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The distributed portion of the dividends can be distributed by cash, check or member credit. What method the Co-op will use has not been determined, but bearing in mind that there are close to 1,000 members, writing checks sounds daunting. Writing checks for less than a dollar would be costly so the Board can implement a policy that sets a de minimus amount below which a dividend will not be paid. However, if there is a simple way to pay all the dividends by crediting the value to the member’s store account, writing individual checks might not be necessary.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "How are Dividends Distributed?" [2451-3061] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="taxes">Taxes</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Technically speaking (and as explicitly state in Section 3 of Article VIII), member-owners are responsible for paying income tax on these dividends. However, there is an exception to this for purchases of “personal, living or family items,” which includes all of the items the Co-op sells. In effect, the consent provision is of no significance to the members of the Co-op, except where the purchases are for business or income-producing purposes.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Taxes" [3062-3533] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="timeframe">Timeframe</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The bylaw change is being proposed now because it has to be in effect at the beginning of 2018 for dividends to be paid in 2019. Waiting until the Annual Meeting in February of 2018 would mean that patronage dividends couldn’t be paid in 2019 but would have to wait until 2020.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "Timeframe" [3534-3838] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit8" id="patronage_dividends_are_not_going_to_replace_discounts">Patronage Dividends are Not Going to Replace Discounts</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
When the Board first looked at Patronage Dividends four years ago, the thought was that they would replace non-working member discounts. As the Board considered Patronage Dividends this time, it was determined that the discounts and dividends were completely separate and could coexist together. While both discounts and dividends must be managed in a fiscally responsible manner, there is no reason they can’t both be in effect simultaneously. 
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Patronage Dividends are Not Going to Replace Discounts" [3839-4355] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="summary">Summary</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
After years of consideration the Board feels strongly that putting the mechanism in place to pay Patronage Dividends is in the best interest of the Co-op. In addition to being a mechanism to distribute profits to members, it is also serves to minimize income tax liabilities in a legal and ethical way.
Your Board encourages you to attend the special October meeting (details will be sent to all member households), and to cast your vote on this important matter.  
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "Summary" [4356-4843] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="for_more_information">For More Information</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The following resources are what the Board used in its deliberations.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Unordered List ItemA Primer on Patronage Dividends: <a href="https://www.wegnercpas.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/patronage-dividend-primer-2015vf_1.pdf" class="urlextern" title="https://www.wegnercpas.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/patronage-dividend-primer-2015vf_1.pdf" rel="nofollow">https://www.wegnercpas.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/patronage-dividend-primer-2015vf_1.pdf</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Patronage and Tax: <a href="http://www.co-oplaw.org/finances-tax/patronage/" class="urlextern" title="http://www.co-oplaw.org/finances-tax/patronage/" rel="nofollow">http://www.co-oplaw.org/finances-tax/patronage/</a> </div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
You are also welcome to email robin.mcclellan at gmail dot com with any questions.
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "For More Information" [4844-] -->